Split user management at RBAC level (#2596)
astronomer/docs: astro/manage-workspace-users.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Manage Workspace users'
title: 'Manage users in your Astro Workspace'
id: manage-workspace-users
description: Add, edit, or remove users in the Cloud UI.
---

> As a Workspace Admin or Organization Owner, you can add new team members to Astro and grant them user roles with permissions for specific actions across your Workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a Workspace Admin or an Organization Owner, you can add new team members to Astro and grant them user roles with permissions for specific actions across your Workspace.
```

Author: Nouns can share indefinite articles. I tend to use this styling to reduce the number of words on the page. See also: https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/can-several-nouns-share-one-article.1542128/

To manage users at the Organization level, see [Manage Organization users](manage-organization-users.md). To manage groups of users, see [Manage Teams](manage-teams.md).

## Prerequisites

To add, edit, or remove Workspace users from a given Workspace, you need either Organization Owner permissions or Workspace Admin permissions for the Workspace.

## Add a user to a Workspace

> 1. In the Cloud UI, click **Workspace Settings** > **Access Management**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, click the Astronomer logo in the upper left corner. Then, go to **Workspaces** and select your Workspace.
```

> 2. In the **Users** tab, click **+ Member**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Workspace Settings** > **Access Management**. In the **Users** tab, click **+ Member**.
```

> 5. Select the user's name and email address in the **Organization Member** list.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Select the user's name and email address in the **Organization Member** list.
```

>    
> 5. Select the user's name and email address in the **Organization Member** list.
>    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the user's name and email address in the **Organization Member** list.
   
```

Reviewer: in the Cloud UI **ORGANIZATION MEMBER** and **WORKSPACE ROLE** are both capitalized, that is why in my previous suggestion I had made them capital. some of those changes have been lost, idk why.

Author: See my previous comment: https://github.com/astronomer/docs/pull/2596#discussion_r1284230999

> 6. Select a role for the user and then click **Add member**. See [Workspace roles reference](user-permissions.md#workspace-roles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select a role for the user and then click **Add member**. See [Workspace roles reference](user-permissions.md#workspace-roles).
```

After you add the user, their information appears in the **Users** tab as a new entry in the **Members** list. 

You can also add groups of users to a Workspace through Teams. See [Manage Teams](manage-teams.md).

## Update or remove a Workspace user

> 1. In the Cloud UI, go to **Workspace Settings** > **Access Management**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, click the Astronomer logo in the upper left corner. Then, go to **Workspaces** and select your Workspace.
```

> 3. Click **Edit** next to the user's name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Workspace Settings** > **Access Management**. 
3. In the **Users** tab, click **Edit** next to the user's name you want to change the role for.
```

> 3. Click **Edit** next to the user's name.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Click **Edit** next to the user's name.
```

> 4. (Optional) Edit the user's name and role. See [Workspace roles](user-permissions.md).
>    
> 5. If you've updated the user's role, click **Update member**. To delete the user, click **Remove member**.

Author: ```suggestion
3. (Optional) Edit the user's name and role. See [Workspace roles](user-permissions.md).
   
4. If you've updated the user's role, click **Update member**. To delete the user, click **Remove member**.
```

## Add a group of users to a Workspace using the Astro CLI

You can use the Astro CLI and a shell script to add multiple users to a Workspace at once. The shell script reads from a text file which contains user information. You can generate a text file for each new batch of users that need to be assigned to a Workspace and run the script with the Astro CLI.

1. Create a text file named `users.txt`.

> 2. Open the text file and add a list of user email addresses that you want to invite to a Workspace. Every email address should include the user's assigned role. The following is an example of how you can write a list for inviting users to an Organization:

Author: ```suggestion
2. Open the text file. On each line, add a user's email and their role separated by a space. The following is an example of how you can write a list for inviting users to an Organization:
```

> 

Reviewer: I do want to write "space-delimited" here because the next script will only work if there is a space between the email and the role.

    ```text

>     user1@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_MEMBER
>     user2@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_OWNER
>     user3@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_BILLING_ADMIN
>     user4@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_OWNER
>     ```

Reviewer: I thought I changed these, these roles are incorrect.
```suggestion
    user1@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_MEMBER
    user2@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_ADMIN
    user3@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_EDITOR
    user4@astronomer.io WORKSPACE_ADMIN
    ```
```

Author: Changed these because the CLI is still using the older values
